Or out in today's lecture we're going to be going over the importance of creating thumbnails when you're
doing your drawings.
Now what is a thumbnail.
Well a thumbnail is basically just a very simple almost crude sketch and generally you want them to
be pretty small.
The point of a thumbnail is to figure out your shapes your values and your composition.
So let's go over a few examples of when you might want to use a thumbnail.
So let's say that you're doing a character design well before you get started with that character design.
You should really start doing thumbnails of what you want that character to look like.
Starting with the pose and the shape of the bottom.
So if we were doing a character with a square head we would stirred up by doing some nails of characters
with square heads and we could try out different sized bodies give her poses for what it is that we're
trying to create.
We can try another one right here so maybe the head will be a little bit bigger and the body will be
really small and have really long legs and then have arms like so.
And then we can even try one with a small head like so and then maybe a big round body and then maybe
some fat legs like so and then some feet and then we can have some arms coming off like so
now we can try even one more.
So let's say that we just wanted an average size head with an average sized body maybe a little bit
longer narrower and then we could go ahead and add in some legs for that character.
And we can go ahead and create some hands and arms for that character and this and now these are considered
thumbnails.
They're very simple crude sketches.
Once you decide which pose or shape you want to use then you can take that in further detail.
So let's say that we want to take this character here so I'm going to do is I'm in a lightly re sketch
that
I'll add in those arms.
And now on top of this I can start adding details so let's say that we want this to be a girl so we're
going to add some eyelashes for the eyes and then we can start some mailing ideas for the hair.
So maybe she could have a big afro and she'd have ears
just go ahead and detail this out and then we can also do a bunch of thumbnails over hairstyle because
maybe we don't want this hairstyle or maybe want to try some different things.
And so we can draw a bunch of thumbnails of hairstyles.
We can just redraw her head and we don't even have to draw a face.
We can just do her basic sheet of her head and then try tried different hairstyle so we can try another
one that's really cool and squiggly like so and then maybe we can try one more over here.
And this one might be more of a long wavy hair so it might hang down like this
but that's the point of a thumbnail.
So you can start really sketching out ideas really quickly and not worry about them looking really good.
You're just trying to get some ideas.
And then once you get your idea down you're going to take this and go ahead and refine it even further
and run with it until you create your final piece of artwork.
Now what if you wanted to use this to decide what your values are going to be.
Well if we have a character right here we can just quickly sketch out how our values are going to work
on our character.
So if I just finished drawing this character real quick.
Well now I can go ahead and add some value in there.
So when it comes to doing my drawing my final one I already know what values I want.
So let's say that we want our hair to be darker
and then let's say that we want her skin to be dark too.
But we still want it to be pretty light.
That way it's contrasting with her hair.
And then go ahead and add in her shirt so her shirt is probably going to be either lighter or darker
color or we can do both.
So don't go ahead and add in some DERKS sleeves on this character but leave the main body of her shirt
white.
Now we can come down to her pants where we can make those darker because we're trying to create contrast
between each part of her body.
And so now we already know how the contrast and the values are going to work on her character.
So when we go to draw the actual final drawing of this character we already know how you want her to
look now.
How do you lay out compositions.
Well you basically just need to sketch out really quick rectangular boxes or whatever the size of your
drawing is going to be.
And then you could just do a quick drawings or sketches of where you want things to be placed.
So let's say we're creating thumbnails for a landscape so we could go ahead and career horizon line
and then we can go ahead and add a mountain or here in the foreground.
And we can add mountain back here in the background and get out a tree right here.
Now we have a very simple composition drawing and if we don't like that we can change things up by creating
a second composition drawing.
And this time we can actually move the horizon line up higher and that can be our only change or only
difference.
So it's going to be the same thing.
It's just everything is going to be moved up higher.
So we will be right here.
And it's also going to be cut it off because of where horizon line is we can go ahead and end those
background mountains and then you can try other things where you completely change your composition
by let's say we put our horizon line back down here at the bottom below to say we want this mountain
to be on the other side.
So we'll go ahead and the mountain in there.
Now I must say that we want this tree behind the mountain even though that doesn't make any sense and
that's one giant tree.
But that's all right.
I'm sorry.
Here we want to add a character
and so the reason we want to do this is because you want to try to create as many ideas for your art
work as possible.
Now I know this can be really time consuming but trust me the more thumbnails you create the better
ideas you're going to have and then you're going to be able to use ideas from one thumbnail and atom
to a second thumbnail and you'll be able to build on top of that until you have a final product that
looks really good.
So I highly recommend that you use thumbnails when you're creating your drawings.
So your assignment for this lecture is to pick an idea that you want to draw.
Whether it's a character an animal an environment drawing or landscape drawing and I want you to go
ahead and create 100 different thumbnails for that.
Now these thumbnails can take as little as 10 seconds to create maybe even five seconds for you.
Or you can spend a little bit more time on them but I'd really recommend you try to do them in about
10 seconds each.
So you're not spending a whole bunch of time doing this.
The point of thumbnails is not to create a masterpiece is to really lay out those ideas and try different
things until you get something that works.
Now every professional artist out there uses thumbnails.
I guarantee it if you ask any of them they'll all say that they go through hundreds of thumbnails for
each project.
I know I do.
So definitely do this assignment.
And also definitely do this before you create any of your artwork.
Try to do at least 20 different thumbnails for each piece of artwork that you're going to create to
watch in this lecture.
And I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.